---
layout: post
type: project
title: NoC Network Interface
subtitle: Improving throughput of NI unit by pipelining
---

FPGA is a promising solution to numerous technological problems arised recently.
Stands for Field Programmable Gate Array, FPGA can be simply understood as
an IC which can be configured by a designer (I do not prefer the word _programmed_ 
as it can be confused with software programming). Since 2012, I has been
working and studying with professor Pham Ngoc Nam at Hanoi University of
Science and Technology about FPGA-related topics. In our laboratory, FPGA boards
are used as a prototype platform for IC designs prototyping. My undergraduate
thesis is about "Network on Chip", my part is to design a new Network Interface
that allows higher communication bandwidth between the Network Router and the
Network Processing Unit (_higher_ compared to existing designs).

The published paper and thesis is written in Vietnamese. However, the English
version of the paper can be found [here](ATC_2014_draft.pdf). 

### The problem we try to solve

Before talking about the problem, I believe I need to provide the reader
with some context. As I mentioned above, the FPGA technology allows user
to design the hardware from scratch. The term "Field Programmable Gate
Arrays" means the FPGA can be "programmed" in field (while in used). For us,
FPGA is the best candidate for prototyping a new architecture. The prototype
platforms we used are the Xilinx Virtex-6 (XC6VLX240T) and the Xilinx Spartan-3E
(XC3S100E-4VQG100C) with 241152 LEs and 2160 LEs respectively. 

[image for FPGA](lala)
